Once again, we're cranking out these sculpting tools, we are going to be putting some shape to the
body of our animal, not the head just yet, the head or the ears will do that later.
But for now, we're going to do some sculpting of the body.
First step is to convert to a mesh.
So I'm going to select all of my metal bowls and then find the object menu.
Slide on down until we see convert to.
And you see in their curved slash mass mesh at Central.
Click on that.
Have a look at the wireframe just to make sure all looks hunky dory, which I think.
Yes, it does.
In fact, I think I'll add a little bit more detail to my mesh song and jump over into sculpt mode and
just use my scrolling wheel to scroll long and my menu are gonna find remeasured, which is right next
to Dion Topper.
Click on that.
And then from within here I will change my voxels size two point o five and then click on the Ramesh
button.
That will add a little bit more detail.
Just so as we're going around and doing our sculpting, we're working from a more detailed mesh.
And that's a good point to show you your challenge, which is to fire up your sculpting tools and shape
your animal's body.
Scott, with symmetry on if appropriate and if you want to do that, I'm not doing that with mine,
as I've mentioned before, because I'm doing the legs a little differently.
And you can see I've got add already posed.
That's why I'm not using symmetry.
Probably we'll use symmetry for the head when I get to that point.
And remember that your animals covered by hair or fur.
So think broad shape, not just fine details, because we will be covering a lot of that upsy.
You won't see those fine details.
So there's a challenge.
Jump in.
Take that on.
I'll see you back here when you done.
And I start by turning on Diane Toppo and looking at the values.
I think I'll have the constant detail and I'll set this as a starting point or in about 20, I'll definitely
be turning this up higher when I'm getting to more detailed areas.
Starting on 20, using the crease, told us to go in and put in some of the creases to get some definition
around the the legs and the muscles.
And as I've done before, I want to speed up the video here.
Just change my smooth tool a little bit so that it's not so aggressive, just starting off with some
clay strips.
I really like clay strips to use it both to add and to subtract, to be kind of scraping out holes.
So here I'm scraping Samarian, the shoulder blades, just adding in some creases, trying to give myself
a little bit of that.
A reference point on my own animals so I can see.
Aha.
This is where the poor should bend.
This is where the knee should bend.
I'm here having a little bit of difficulty, I think on the front paw, the one that's bent a little
bit of a weird way just going around the animal.
I tend to work in a fairly random just flow to here.
The moon takes me approach.
So if I'm working on one leg, I might see something that's really bugging me on one the other legs.
And then I jump over there and I jump back again rather than trying to get one particular aspect to
100 percent done.
I tend to float around a lot and just work on the different areas.
So just adding, subtracting, adding, subtracting.
You can see here I'm using a lot of the clay strips, which I quite like, and also playing around in
the grab tool to move things.
Also playing around with the inflight tool.
I use that a little bit.
I think I'm going to use that on the tail.
I reckon will be a good place to see if I can deflate and inflate that.
And just finessing it, getting it to the point where I'm happy with the the thickness of the leg.
It's a little bit tricky with the legs because we will have hair or fur on top of them.
So it's hard to know how skinny to make them.
So they end up looking the right thickness that we've got in our reference images.
So here I'm playing around with having them a little bit thinner and I might need to just fatten them
up a little bit later on if they look too thin and then just finding spots where I can, I guess, get
that shape of the muscles or the bones, particularly in those shoulder joints.
I think that's a really important part of the cat to have those shine through.
Just going around, doing a lot of smoothing standard workflow, just add down some clay strips or draw
or or do an inverse of the draw sharp and then straight away to smooth that so that we get rid of the,
you know, the sculpting tool mark as we go.
So I'm starting to work on the tail here, just experimenting with the pose tool, which I find quite
interesting.
But to be honest, I haven't had a lot of success with it.
It tends to rotate things I find in a very aggressive way and see if I rotate the leg, then it really
can really mess it up.
You've got to play around a lot with the size of the tool and exactly where you grab it.
That's something good to experiment with, I think, to see if I can get it working for your particular
structure and not getting weird rotations.
I find that often the grab tool does just as good a job if you make the grab tool, the right size that
you can see.
He very interestingly, when I'm using the grab tool, it has squashed the tail and doesn't hasn't given
a very good effect playing around with the inflate or the reverse of inflate, which is the deflate
tool as I go to see if that gives us a good effect on the tail so I can fatten it and thin it out and
then just having a look at it.
I don't think the reference image is exactly doing with the tail.
Would I'd like to have the tail do so.
I'm just practicing with a shape here, not worrying so much.
If I mess up the geometry itself I can just go and refat in that and reshape it later on.
But I'm just trying to get the overall broad flow of the tail.
Should it go straight up or straight down.
I think when a cat is hunting, the tail doesn't stick straight up in the air.
If you look at videos of big cats when they're hunting their prey, they're trying to stay as low to
the ground as possible.
If they had this big tail waving up out of the grass, then the creatures they're stalking will see
them.
So here I am playing around and having the tail be fairly straight in line with the cat, but have a
little bit of flow to it.
So goes down and then picks up a little bit at the end to, you know, to show that the cat is engaged
in stalking.
But it's not, you know, when we're not in the middle of the savanna where it's hunting a wildebeest
or science, just kind of doing what cats do.
So that that was what I was trying to sum somewhat with the tail.
They're going around the paws, just trying to reshape them fat and the mat a little bit.
I've said before, the paws will be hidden probably by grass, but I want to make sure that the shape
of them is at least the the shape that I'm looking for.
And then I'm also moving my camera around to see what's a likely camera shot, our camera position that
I'm going to have for this pose.
And somewhere around here, I think front on the cats walking past the camera, I can see the shape.
It's that that shoulder at the front that I really want to accentuate and have that pop through.
And the the shape of the head, I think needs to match as well.
And the head is precisely what we'll be working on in the next lecture.
So when you're done sculpting with your body, I will see you in the next lecture for us to work on
the head.